# teamDiabetes.github.io
Introduction/Background:
In this report, we are predicting the occurrence of diabetes based on lifestyle which involves macronutrient breakdown and exercise activity. There is prior work done regarding diabetes classification and predictive analysis for diabetes. Classification of diabetes is a crucial step for predicting diabetes, however it’s a difficult task since it involves analyzing multiple different factors which can lead to inaccurate results. Several techniques were used for diabetes prediction including a stacking-based ensemble method as well as data mining techniques such as random forest, logistic regression, and naïve Bayes. These techniques outperformed the state-of-the-art approach with 79% accuracy. The dataset that we plan to use is the NHANES 2017-March 2020 Pre-Pandemic Questionnaire Data which includes many features such as blood sugar levels, age, insulin, diet, and physical activity.
 
Problem Definition:
An energy-conscious diet combined with modest physical activity improves various metabolic syndrome indices and delays the onset of diabetic complications. Over the last few decades, the prevalence of illnesses linked to insulin resistance, such as the metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes, has risen. In college, it is very easy to be overwhelmed with school work, extracurricular activities and other priorities and so our focus on our health takes a back seat. College students experience an array of mental and physical health issues due to various factors including overwhelming stress to succeed in classes as well as personal life changes. Having to manage all these different situations can be extremely intimidating for most students. Therefore, they start developing unhealthy lifestyle habits including eating more fast food, exercising less and increased alcohol consumption. Therefore, we wanted to complete this project to allow students to predict whether their current lifestyle is sustainable or if it will result in them developing diabetes which would hinder their lives forever. 
 
Methods:
The first step will be gathering data about what factors are important in diagnosing diabetes. Then, after researching which factors are important in the diagnoses, we will try a few methods of supervised learning to see what results in the most accuracy for our dataset. Given that our data is classification based, since a patient can be diagnosed with diabetic, prediabetic, and not diabetic, we will try models such as random forest and logistic regression and determine which results in more accuracy for our project. Both models have their advantages and disadvantages and trying them out will determine which blends better with our dataset.
 
Potential Results/Discussion:
The potential results for this project is to build a program that will be able to take into account certain lifestyle markers of an individual such as diet, physical exercise, alcohol consumption, etc. Using these factors we hope to predict if an individual is at risk of getting diagnosed with diabetes and if so, what specific type(s) of diabetes they are at risk for. What we need to focus on is the types of markers we need to collect in order to make these observations as well as solidifying which datasets to use in order to train our models. With more research we should be able to narrow down exactly what we hope for our program to calculate and predict.
